h1. Recess Sandbox

Building sturdy software in PHP is hard without the right tools. Recess Sandbox is a collection of shell scripts to configure a system for serious PHP development in a virtual machine with:

* Server Software
** Apache 2.2
** PHP 5.3
** MySQL Installed
* PHP IDE
** Eclipse PDT 2.1
** Integrated Debugging
** Syntax auto-completion
* Interactive Debugging
** XDebug Installed and Configured
** Easy integration of XDebug and IDE
* Profiling
** Profile your PHP by adding a query string
** Visualize and inspect your call graph
** Optimize your software where it matters
* Unit Testing
** Code Coverage
** Interactive Debugging in IDE

h2. Prerequisites

Recess Sandbox is designed to be run on clean Ubuntu 9.04 virtual machines. Download and install this software to get started:
* "VirtualBox":http://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads
* "Ubuntu 9.04 ISO":http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/download

h2. Install

Once the ubuntu vm is installed extract these scripts to ~/sandbox/ and from a shell script issue these commands:
cd ~/sandbox/scripts/setup
./install-sandbox.sh

You will be prompted for a MySQL root user password and must accept Sun's JDK licensing agreement.

If you plan to use PostgreSQL, you will only be able to access it on the
local machine by default. The default username is postgres and there is no
password. You have to be the postgres user to pass the user ident test however.
So to begin configuration issue the following command:

    sudo -u postgres psql

This will bring you into postgres to continue your custom setup.
